# MIS500-Critical-Thinking-Module-4

 Implementing R Hypothesis Testing
This assignment will make use of an R’s IDE tool to perform hypothesis testing. To get started with this assignment, follow the R installation instructions found in the Course Resources folder.

R is a programming language, and thus, we need to adhere to certain syntax rules. R tasks are segregated into Data and Functions (e.g., Built-in Functions, Control Structures, User-defined Functions). Data steps read in data and perform manipulations on those data (Sorting, Merging, Aggregating, Reshaping, Subsetting, etc.). Functions steps perform analyses, generate informational statistics, make plots, and print listings.

R can read data from almost any source. Common sources of data are raw text files, MS Excel spreadsheets, Access databases, and other database systems such as DB2, SQL Server, and Oracle.

R Hypothesis Tests

Hypothesis testing generally considers samples from two populations. For example, you could have a group of students with scores compared before and after tutoring. This would allow us to understand the possible impact of tutoring.

Test Setup

The null hypothesis for a paired t-test is Ho: μd = Do.

A paired t-test is commonly a two-sided test which seeks to identify any difference where one sample is higher or lower than the other by for example Do. Differences can also be identified that are less than or greater than zero, or some other value. The three alternate hypotheses then can be written as:

μd > Do
μd < Do
μd ≠ Do

In this example, tutoring is being examined to determine its effect on students. Twelve students participate in the study. Each student’s score is measured both before and after the tutoring was administered. The example below will compute summary statistics, Unpaired Two Sample t-test, and Independent t-test. After following the steps to setting up your R’s IDE, open a new project.  In the code editor tab of the R IDE – type the following program:

 

# R Hypothesis Tests

install.packages("dplyr")

 

tScore_before <- c(40, 62, 74, 22, 64, 65, 49, 49, 49)

tScore_after <- c(68, 61, 64, 76, 90, 75, 66, 60, 63)

# Create a data frame

my_data <- data.frame(

                group = rep(c("Score Before", "Score After"), each = 9),

                scores = c(tScore_before,  tScore_after)

                )

 

# Print all data

print(my_data)

 

#Compute summary statistics by groups

library(dplyr)

group_by(my_data, group) %>%

  summarise(

    count = n(),

    mean = mean(scores, na.rm = TRUE),

    sd = sd(scores, na.rm = TRUE)

  )

 

# Compute Unpaired Two Sample t-test

res <- t.test(tScore_before, tScore_after, var.equal = TRUE)

res

 

# Compute independent t-test

res <- t.test(scores ~ group, data = my_data, var.equal = TRUE)

res

 

#test whether the average score before score is less than the average after score, type this:

t.test(scores ~ group, data = my_data,

        var.equal = TRUE, alternative = "less")

 

The output will be on the screen (take a screenshot). Your submission file must be in Microsoft Word with a title page, the code, and the screenshot(s) of the output.
Submit your assignment in a Word document with a title page, the R code, and screenshots of all the output data showing the execution of the code, including the graphs generated by this code.
